Action Introspection introduction and tutorial. (#5103)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Demos/Action-Introspection.rst

> Configure action introspection
> ===============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure action introspection
==============================
```

**Goal:** Configure action introspection for an action client and an action server.

**Tutorial level:** Advanced

**Time:** 15 minutes

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 1
   :local:

Overview
--------

> ROS 2 applications usually consist of actions to execute specific procedures and works in remote nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS 2 applications usually consist of actions to execute specific long-running procedures or work in remote nodes.
```

I think this aligns a bit better with the conceptual introduction of actions (first line of first paragraph): https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Basic/About-Actions.html

> In ROS 2, an action refers to a long-running remote procedure call with feedback and the ability to cancel or preempt the goal.

It is possible to introspect action data communication with action introspection.

> ROS 2 action is constructed on topics and services, so action introspection is based on :doc:`Service Introspection <Service-Introspection>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS 2 actions are built on topics and services, so action introspection is based on :doc:`Service Introspection <Service-Introspection>`.
```

In this demo, we'll be highlighting how to configure action introspection state for an action client and an action server and monitor action communication with ``ros2 action echo``.

Installing the demo
-------------------

See the :doc:`installation instructions <../../Installation>` for details on installing ROS 2.

If you've installed ROS 2 binary packages, ensure that you have ``ros-{DISTRO}-demo-nodes-cpp`` and ``ros-{DISTRO}-demo-nodes-py`` installed.
If you downloaded the archive or built ROS 2 from source, it will already be part of the installation.

Introspection Configuration State
---------------------------------

> Similar to service introspection, there are three configuration states for action introspection.
> 
> .. list-table::  Action Introspection Configuration State
>    :widths: 25 25
> 
>    * - RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_OFF
>      - Disabled
>    * - RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_METADATA
>      - Only metadata without any user data contents
>    * - RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_CONTENTS
>      - User data contents with metadata

Reviewer: From what I understand, service introspection and action introspection are enabled separately, but they use the same enum (`rcl_service_introspection_state_t`). That might confuse people. Could we try to mention that we are using the same enum?

Also, I would make the enum values literals (and would do the same in the service introspection demo).

```suggestion
There are three configuration states for action introspection.
They are the same states as service introspection.

.. list-table::  Action Introspection Configuration State
   :widths: 25 25

   * - ``RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_OFF``
     - Disabled
   * - ``RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_METADATA``
     - Only metadata without any user data contents
   * - ``RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_CONTENTS``
     - User data contents with metadata
```

Reviewer 2: Readers who are not familiar with the internal implementation of the action might indeed be confused.

Introspection demo
------------------

This demo shows how to manage action introspection and monitor the action data communication with using ``ros2 action echo``.

> FibonacciActionServer(python):

Reviewer: I would make this a subsection.

```suggestion
Action server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

I intentionally did not mention "Python" to avoid making users think the tutorial also shows a C++ version of the action server. We link to a C++ version of the action server, but we do not show it.

I would do the same with "FibonacciActionClient(c++):" below; I created a suggestion for it.

You can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_server.py <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_py/action_tutorials_py/fibonacci_action_server.py>`__.
``FibonacciActionServer`` has a parameter named ``action_server_configure_introspection`` to configure the action introspection state.

> .. code-block:: python

Author: I intentionally avoided copying the source code from demos.

- can be too long, user can just see the whole code via URL links.
- `configure_introspection` API calling is the only key point here.
- avoid dependency for maintainability: once the demos are updated, we need to also update the ros2 documentation.

    class FibonacciActionServer(Node):
    ...
        def on_post_set_parameters_callback(self, parameter_list):
            for param in parameter_list:
                if param.name != 'action_server_configure_introspection':
                    continue

                introspection_state = ServiceIntrospectionState.OFF
                if param.value == 'disabled':
                    introspection_state = ServiceIntrospectionState.OFF
                elif param.value == 'metadata':
                    introspection_state = ServiceIntrospectionState.METADATA
                elif param.value == 'contents':
                    introspection_state = ServiceIntrospectionState.CONTENTS

                self._action_server.configure_introspection(self.get_clock(),
                                                            qos_profile_system_default,
                                                            introspection_state)
                break
    ...

> If you want to try c++ version, you can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_server.cpp <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_cpp/src/fibonacci_action_server.cpp>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to try the C++ version, you can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_server.cpp <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_cpp/src/fibonacci_action_server.cpp>`__.
```

> Action introspection is disable in default, so users need to enable it with ``action_server_configure_introspection`` parameter when the server starts up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action introspection is disabled by default, so users need to enable it with the ``action_server_configure_introspection`` parameter when the server starts up.
```

> In this demo, ``FibonacciActionServer`` enables the action introspection with ``contents`` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this demo, ``FibonacciActionServer`` enables action introspection when the value of the ``action_server_configure_introspection`` parameter is ``contents``.
```

> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>     $ ros2 run action_tutorials_py fibonacci_action_server --ros-args -p "action_server_configure_introspection:=contents"

Reviewer: `bash` is meant for bash scripts. For CLI stuff, we should use `console`, which will also prevent the `$` from being selected.

Or in this case you could keep `bash` and remove `$`, since we are not showing the output of the command.

```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash

    ros2 run action_tutorials_py fibonacci_action_server --ros-args -p action_server_configure_introspection:=contents
```

I also removed the quotes.

> To change action introspection state, we need to set the ``action_server_configure_introspection`` parameter as following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change action introspection state, we need to set the ``action_server_configure_introspection`` parameter as follows.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    ### User data contents with metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_server action_server_configure_introspection contents
    ### Or only metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_server action_server_configure_introspection metadata
    ### To disable

>     $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_server action_server_configure_introspection disabled

Reviewer: Just a note: Here I think using `bash` indeed looks better, but ideally we would use `console` and we would prevent the `#` lines from being selectable and copyable.

> FibonacciActionClient(c++):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action client
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

.. code-block:: c++

    namespace action_tutorials_cpp
    {
    class FibonacciActionClient : public rclcpp::Node
    ...
        auto post_set_parameter_callback =
          [this](const std::vector<rclcpp::Parameter> & parameters) {
            for (const rclcpp::Parameter & param : parameters) {
              if (param.get_name() != "action_client_configure_introspection") {
                continue;
              }

              rcl_service_introspection_state_t introspection_state = RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_OFF;

              if (param.as_string() == "disabled") {
                introspection_state = RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_OFF;
              } else if (param.as_string() == "metadata") {
                introspection_state = RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_METADATA;
              } else if (param.as_string() == "contents") {
                introspection_state = RCL_SERVICE_INTROSPECTION_CONTENTS;
              }

              this->client_ptr_->configure_introspection(
                this->get_clock(), rclcpp::SystemDefaultsQoS(), introspection_state);
              break;
            }
          };
    ...

> If you want to try python version, you can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_client.py <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_py/action_tutorials_py/fibonacci_action_client.py>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to try the Python version, you can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_client.py <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_py/action_tutorials_py/fibonacci_action_client.py>`__.
```

And then, we start and configure ``FibonacciActionClient`` in the same way.

> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>     $ ros2 run action_tutorials_cpp fibonacci_action_client --ros-args -p "action_client_configure_introspection:=contents"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash

    ros2 run action_tutorials_cpp fibonacci_action_client --ros-args -p action_client_configure_introspection:=contents
```

> To change action introspection state, we need to set the ``action_client_configure_introspection`` parameter as following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change action introspection state, we need to set the ``action_client_configure_introspection`` parameter as follows.
```

Note that ``FibonacciActionClient`` only runs in short time, so it is recommended to set the parameter before running the client as above.

.. code-block:: bash

    ### User data contents with metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection contents
    ### Or only metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection metadata
    ### To disable
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection disabled

> 

Reviewer: If we're creating subsections for the client and server above, we should create one here for the introspection command:

```suggestion

Introspect
^^^^^^^^^^

```

Author: i added `Start demonstration` for starting up the action client/server, and `Introspect` as suggested here.

> In this tutorial the following is example output with action introspection state ``CONTENTS`` on both ``FibonacciActionServer`` and ``FibonacciActionClient``.

Reviewer: It should be `contents` and not `CONTENTS`, right? Same in the [service introspection demo](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Demos/Service-Introspection.html#introspection-demo).

```suggestion
In this tutorial, the following an example output with action introspection state ``contents`` on both ``FibonacciActionServer`` and ``FibonacciActionClient``.
```

Reviewer: Ah, the enum value is `CONTENTS`, but the `action_{service,client}_configure_introspection` parameter value is `contents`. Which one is this sentence referring to?

Author: parameter, so it should be `contents`.

Reviewer: But it says "action introspection state," so it's kind of referring to the enum and the `configure_introspection()` call. If you meant to refer to the parameter, I would suggest mentioning "parameter" too, but I'll leave it up to you.

To monitor action communication between ``FibonacciActionServer`` and ``FibonacciActionClient``, let's run it:

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: Because we are using `$` to show which line is the command and which ones are the output;

```suggestion
.. code-block:: console
```

              break;
            }
          };
    ...

If you want to try the Python version, you can find the source code here: `fibonacci_action_client.py <https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/action_tutorials/action_tutorials_py/action_tutorials_py/fibonacci_action_client.py>`__.

And then, we start and configure ``FibonacciActionClient`` in the same way.

.. code-block:: bash

    ros2 run action_tutorials_cpp fibonacci_action_client --ros-args -p action_client_configure_introspection:=contents

To change action introspection state, we need to set the ``action_client_configure_introspection`` parameter as follows.
Note that ``FibonacciActionClient`` only runs in short time, so it is recommended to set the parameter before running the client as above.

.. code-block:: bash

    ### User data contents with metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection contents
    ### Or only metadata
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection metadata
    ### To disable
    $ ros2 param set /fibonacci_action_client action_client_configure_introspection disabled

Introspect
^^^^^^^^^^

> In this tutorial, the following an example output with action introspection state ``contents`` on both ``FibonacciActionServer`` and ``FibonacciActionClient``.

Reviewer: My bad, my suggestion was missing "is"

```suggestion
In this tutorial, the following is an example output with action introspection state ``contents`` on both ``FibonacciActionServer`` and ``FibonacciActionClient``.
```
